"And that is immovable of the body, immovable of the senses, immovable of the awareness. Those are
three immovable."
"In immovable of the body, which means, I already said, postures, have good postures, or
comfortable postures, or sitting on a chair, whichever comfortable, but not, during the meditation,
you should not have uncomfortable."
"Whatever comfortable practices, so comfortable."
"But even though it's sitting on a chair, according to teaching, trying to keep backspains, those
are straight up, shoulders are extended, and bellies are pulled a little bit in, not loose."
"So that means your waist and all those are kind of straight up, and head held up, kind of straight
up there. And now, that is the immovable of the body."
"And the immovable of the senses, that means, I already mentioned earlier, all senses, eyes, ears,
nose, everything, live as it is. Nothing really changes. Even in Dzogchen teaching, it will open
the eyes, not widely, but open the eyes, look into the spaces."
"Swiss, those are the teachings here. Go into the space."
"Why?" The teachings said, "When you open the eyes, the clarity comes. Your meditation will become
more clarity."
"What in those experiences, meditators said, in the teaching, and I heard truth from those orally
heard."
"First, when we meditate, stabilizing mind is so important. Stabilizing. So that is stable."
"One mind is more like stabilized. Stabilized, then mostly important is clarity."
Clarity means meditation with more press, more clay, more bullying, not dull, sitting, kind of
stable. Clay, the pristine, that is really important.
And in order to do that, and this eye, you open the eye, look into the space, according to the
teaching, it will help. It will be more clarity.
Clarity and that will also open the inborn wisdom too, according to the teaching. So it is very
good.
So then, you meditate. Now, meditator is now, you meditate on the Dzogchen state.
The non-ness, that is what we discussed in the teaching said, non-ness, you are really relaxed.
That is it. And now there is nothing else.
Meditation, practice, during the Dzogchen meditation, meditation only, is really there.
That is what the Garab Dorji is teaching. It's upon the hour. Recognize one's own inner nature.
And then, second, one's resolutions. Resolutions. That means not lingering so many different things
.
Now stay. You should be happy. Because Dzogchen practice encompasses everything.
Dzogchen practice is really like it. By practicing Dzogchen meditation, it will subdue negativity.
It will purify all the negativities. It will, by close connection to our amibok, we are not just
close connection.
We are in a three-gaya state of mind. So therefore, it is all practices. It encompasses everything.
Everything means it encompasses the guru. It encompasses the guru practices.
It encompasses the yidam practices. It encompasses the nakini practices.
It encompasses everything, all the practices. So therefore, one resolution to Dzogchen meditation
and then meditate.
Continue maintaining that. Meditating is not an effort to meditate.
But relaxing. Carefree. For those reasons, in teaching, great master's knowledge is on the set.
And never after that, never changed. Never propagated.
Keep as it is, as it is in the nature. Without any effort.
And nothing holding. Never holding. Not holding anything.
And if you keep that way, that is the way all the brothers have went and got realization.
All the brothers coming, going to get realization. That is the way. That's it.
So not changing, not altering, not trying to do this and that, but simply relaxing.
And not pulsing. And then relaxing. That's where get hold of realization.
So for that reason here, His Holid Munir Midsit here, in the Kaulana of Hayyid.
The letting go in the free, natural flow of the uncontructible awareness.
Leave as it is. Carefree. Not trying to regulate.
And we're trying to regulate something. That is the duality. That is the publication.
That is the conception. That is, we are, is, what's called, we dilute our meditation.
And we're trying to do that. Then really it's conceptual.
That is the duality. What does that mean? Then that is root of samsara.
Root of the obscurations. We're creating the samsara.
We're releasing samsara to the Dhammakaya status as it is.
So here, that is flow of the uncontructible awareness status.
And then here, He's only saying, same thing as the NÄrjuna teachings.
Not holding. What's ever arises. Not holding.
Thought comes. The display of the Dhammakaya, or in other words, thought will come where you med
itate.
It's energy flow. Dhammakaya energy. And that energy is in it.
Dokriti what says it? Sambukaya, NÄrmakaya energy.
That, they are the NÄrmakaya. They are the Sambukaya energy.
Come, it will flow. But don't block. Don't regulate it.
When you regulate it, that, I say, is a duality. It's samsara mind.
So, He says, not holding. What's ever arises. What ever is good thoughts.
Bad thoughts. Different visions. Different imaginations.
Kind of in the mind comes sometimes. Not sometimes, many times it comes. Really. All the different
things.
Maybe sometimes the kind of silliness comes. And sometimes the kind of water falls.
And then we try and think, oh, this beautiful cooling. That is the trick trick.
We are tricked by our own displays. It's all come from display.
It is good, good things. All such good things, joy and devotion bodies are there.
Even it comes. Very cool. Even it is good.
And bad things such as emotions, stress force, all our kind of vast memories, vast different things
.
Our childhood memories, whatever. It's all kind of comes.
Those could come. All imagination, something comes up to you.
Maybe nothing happened. At least this lifetime.
But some kind of like those habits went away.
Not analyze this and that thing. Then that is the witness of the duality.
Then it's tricky hearts. So that is all in the mind.
Also on our sense side, things see good things. Or beautiful things.
Or maybe not so good things see. Or heard some noise.
Those are good, not excellent. Smell everything. Whatever it is.
Not regulating, not normulating, not discriminating, not labeling.
Those this and that. That is duality. That is a trick.
Trick. Even though this all kind of came.
So therefore he said his own thing of self-liberation. Liberated.
This liberated is again what Garabdol is. A third world teacher.
Liberated on the confidence of the world. Liberating.
The great Master Popper would emphasize that our progress of the meditation.
Doki meditation is 100% the relying of the way we are liberating.
Every day we are able to liberate it as it arises.
Our practice really is going so smooth.
And we don't liberate it as it arises. Even we recognize the teaching.
Even we have good understanding of Doki practices or teachings.
We stop. So the cornerstone or the landmark of the realization
or not realization is really measured by this liberation.
That is it. That liberation is the during the meditation,
during the post-meditation. It is not just only the meditation time.
During the post-meditation. Also liberated.
We are able to liberate it whatever the consequence comes externally.
Immediately that is number one.
As it arises. As that moment liberated.
Then what the great Master Popper would say.
That moment you uprooted the source of suffering.
Among the post-Buddha's teaching, the poor noble truth. First is the source of suffering truth.
And the source of suffering is what? The source of suffering truth is what?
Is negative emotions.
Anger. Jealous. Headed thought.
And then underneath is ignorance. Ignorance is supported to it.
Ignorance is behind the scene.
Ignorance we can't see again. It's so naive. So deep.
But the anger and the jealous and the hated thought and the doubt.
Those are surface and active. It's underneath. It's completely saturated with ignorance.
But when those arise, we can see our mind.
We know our mind. When it arises that.
That instant we are able to liberate it.
That moment we uprooted the source of suffering truth.
When we uprooted the source of suffering, we did that moment.
Then is uprooted suffering truth.
So false truth. True. The poor noble truth by the great Master Popper.
We uprooted right that moment. That particular thing even.
Therefore. And that is really the progress.
If we are able to do that is what many times in defining moment,
the practicing and not practicing, the way we liberate it.
If we liberate it, we are practitioners. If we are not liberating,
then we are even may have name, practitioner or practicing, not just a name.
We are practicing for what? But still our strength of realization is weak.
We are just the same as others. Others cannot liberate.
Others not practicing. Then they follow up the emotions.
And then we follow up the emotions.
What the great teacher Buddha used example.
When you throw a stone to the dog,
the dog goes up the stones.
When that stone if you throw to the lion,
lion will not go up the stone.
Come to the throw of stones.
So then if we follow the emotions,
we are imitating as a dog. Dogi.
Dogi. But when we go to the souls,
immediately we are relieved.
Taking the example of the lion according to the great teacher Buddha Chaka Muni.
So this liberating is so, so important for all of us.
For all of us really that we can do that.
And even you couldn't liberate immediately,
but after maybe two minutes,
ten minutes after we can liberate, it adjusted that.
Then it's good, really good.
But then there is also maybe already mess.
Mess, so it's really difficult.
But before making the mess,
at that instant if we can handle that,
then truly we are the bodhisattvas.
Bodhisattva means what?
It sounds good word, but it sounds like the courageous ones
for the enlightenment.
Really, really one for the enlightenment.
That is great.
And we live with it.
For that reason, Buddha said, named the victorious ones.
It's not that victorious, they pulled with the wall
and killed people with soul, this and that.
But they paired the wall with negative emotions.
They subdued.
Therefore, they are victorious ones.
Jara, Dadyumba, conquered.
Those are all terminology used.
Arhathas, those are used.
Because they subdued the very fundamental of the troubles
and that obstacles, really that.
So that is really a liberation.
That is liberating.
And by letting go, in the pre-natural flow
of the uncontrollable awareness
and then not holding the whatever arises,
the blessings of the self-liberation are obtained.
Then truly you attain the blessings.
Blessings of your strength of the lineage teaching,
a strength of your realization and a strength of your own.
Promote your wisdom.
Three Gayas.
Dharma Gaya, Samgoh Gaya.
Gaya and Nirmah Gayas.